Let's talk about [LAUGH]
what do managers do?
The most common question, do you have
a good idea what your manager does?
Probably not, maybe you do.
So maybe you have some inkling,
you might see the output that they do but
you're not in one on ones,
you're not in the staff meetings.
You don't actually know what
they're talking about in all these.
So let me shed some light on like
this hidden world of management and
what actually is going on.
So what do managers do?
The answer is it depends, the good answer.
As a engineering manager at a startup,
I might spend more of my time coding and
hiring.
I'm trying to build up the team and
I'm coding because I don't have
a lot of partners to talk to you.
At a midsize company, you're probably
not hiring as many senior engineers,
because senior engineers tend
to go maybe bigger salaries.
So maybe as midsize company,
you're trying to grow quickly.
But you still need kind of the junior or
maybe mid-career software engineers.
So you probably spend
a lot of time mentoring.
And you might be doing a lot of project
management at this stage because
the people on your team aren't quite
senior enough to do that themselves.
And of course, if you're an engineering
manager at a FAANG company,
you spend most of your time chilling.
And eating the free
food as I do every day.
The truth is, your role will change
from day to day, from week to week.
We talked about all these
different roles you play.
A lot of that varies on the company,
the size of the team,
the experience of the team,
the relation of the team to the business.
Are you in a part of the business
that's really important right now,
has a lot of eyes on it?
Or are you in more of a keep
the lights on part of the business,
just keep things running?
The size of the company
changes what you do.
An enterprise company, you're gonna be
talking, having a lot more meetings,
talking to a lot more partners.
A smaller company, if you're a company of,
I don't know, 20, 30.
You're probably gonna spend a lot
more time coding cuz you have that
opportunity to do that.
There's not as much pressure to
deliver things as a manager.
And then the role of the team,
are you a product team?
Do you build things directly for
customers to utilize?
Are you like me, I run a platform team,
where my customers are actually other
engineers who work at the company.
And having that perspective on who's
your users, who's your customers,
is gonna change.
And that can be in the same company,
you can play different roles.
So the answer is what do managers do?
A lot of it depends.
And you have to understand all
these things going into a role, and
take all these factors into account.
So the better question is,
at a high level,
because the specifics are gonna vary, what
are engineering managers responsible for?
That's a little bit more generic.
In general, engineering management is one
side engineering, one side management.
In the beginning and
in the middle are people.
It's always about people, but the way that
shows up is going to be on the technical
side, the engineering side, and
on the business and management side.
But everything you do is gonna
be in favor of the business.
This is an uncomfortable truth.
It means sometimes you
can't make people happy.
You can't pay them enough.
Because the business says you can't pay
them enough, you can't pay them more.
They wanna move to a bigger role or
a different title,
and you can't do that cuz there's
no room for them in the business.
There's no room in the budget, or
maybe your manager doesn't
feel that's appropriate.
So that's the challenging part of
engineering management is keeping people
happy and
balancing all these different priorities.
But at the end of the day, the business
pays you to do something and it pays you
to operate the team efficiently and
that's what you have to remember.
But your team is made of people and
they don't care about the business as much
that's your job and
that's my job right now.
They shouldn't have to care.
And if I'm saying like, man, Jem, these
are a lot of contrasting perspectives.
Yeah, [LAUGH] that's what you do, though.
That's the challenge of
engineering management.
But this chart at a high level is
exactly what you're responsible for,
everything in between.
And the fun thing is,
this doesn't change as you move up,
if you become senior manager,
director, VP.
It's always engineering, the technology,
and there's always the business and
management side, and
there's always people in the middle.
The amount of people,
your relation to the technology,
your relation to the business change, but
it always looks like this no matter what.
Any thoughts or perspectives on this one?
>> I would say that this is
something that I kind of noticed as
I got into engineering management.
Whereas when I was just an engineer,
it kind of felt very, well,
if management would just do this,
well, [LAUGH] there's a lot more
contrasting concerns and
desires that you maybe weren't aware of.
And therefore, your manager is in a,
yeah, has a lot more competing interests
that they have to worry about,
that you're not aware of, so.
>> That's a good perspective.
Yeah, I was probably that person, too,
[LAUGH] the pointing out of things.
Why don't we do this,
why don't we do that?
And, for
my sins now I'm an engineering manager and
I understand there's a lot more competing
priorities that I was aware of.
And I didn't have to be aware of.
I had a good manager who
shielded me from that, but
there's no shield when you're
a manager at this level.